Planning phase also comes with planning Operational activity. This falls under other categories too in secure development operational life cycle
Major Secure Opeartional actvities are as below
1. **Resilliency** - Backup & Recovery concept, Disastor Recovery, High Availability, Business Continuity Plans - _Part of Recovery phase too_. Here we enable backup system & test for recovery periodically to ensure smooth operations. ex - For AWS if you are storing data in s3 bucket than yiu can choose to replicate the same data across multiple region (ex - india, US) so that if server at one location is down automatically it will fetch data from another and service will be intact.
2. **Monitoring** - Log should be captured for necessary events and intergated with SIEM (Security Information and Event Management) tools for continous monitoring. SIEM systems generate alerts for security incidents. These alerts can be used to notify administrators or trigger automated responses to certain types of events. Ex- attcker trying to guess password for a genuine user. After multiple login attempts, SIEM can notify as alerts, block the IP temporariliy. 
3. **Incident management/ Breach notification** - Once a incident is confirmed using SIEM or logs, handling the same (identifying root cause, Containment (stop spreading), eliminate, recovery of system, lesson learned ). Once done the same need to be notifed to customer lawfully which is breach notification.
4. **Secure cloud configuration** - Configuring cloud accounts, services in public cloud like AWS, AZure securely. 
5. **Account Management** - This falls under user access management. Basically from the beginning of onbroading an user to offboarding a user. The user we are talking about could be a AWS user, database user, support user for day 2 day operations. The complete user management should be automated & tracked via tools. Ex - A user should be able to request for access to a Database as an admin and an super admin should approve the request for a specific duartion like 1 year or 6 month. All these user details, permission, approval should be logged & activity can be monitored. user role & permission should be mentioned properly. Some tool support account deletion as well. Multi-factor authentication like OTP, password policy can be enfored using **user access management tools**.

